hello there my name is Jay I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e2
language and I'm currently recording
this from my mum's lounge room I hope
everyone is well out there in the world
and coping ok with Co V at 19:00 it's
all very scary and it's all very strange
to have your freedom sort of stripped
from you like this but we'll all have
our freedoms back soon so please make
the most of this time to prepare for
your IELTS test yeah cool all right
let's get started and take a look ok so
what we're going to do today is look at
an IELTS academic reading
multiple-choice question we're gonna do
five questions and what we're looking at
here is actually how it looks on e to
language comm so if you do sign up to e
to language comm you'll see this here ok
this is how we this is how you practice
on e to language calm ok here is the
same question I've just made it a little
bit larger for you what I want you to do
to start with is I want you to spend 45
seconds reading this paragraph very
carefully then we're going to get stuck
into the questions your time starts now
you
okay so hopefully you read that
paragraph very carefully let's now take
a look at the first set of questions
here I'm just going to move my little
drawing tool alright so I'm just going
to give you twenty seconds to answer
this first question the first question
is some people believe that alcohol
which includes animal parts what a B C
or D you have 20 seconds
you
okay if you do need more time please
feel free to pause the video and spend a
little bit more time answering that
question let's take a look at this
specific part that you should be reading
in order to answer this first question
so again the question is some people
believe that alcohol which includes
animal parts
what well the text says some drinkers in
Southeast Asia prefer their alcohol
distilled with animal parts a tradition
stemming from the supposed curative
powers the creatures provide so why do
they drink it because it can cure
diseases because it's a tradition from
China because it's a lucrative trade or
it's more intoxicating and if you look
even more closely at this sentence here
you can see this phrase the supposed
curative powers take a look at that word
curative what is the base word of that
word there it would be the word cure
right so we can see a different form
that's an adjective and adjective form
there so hopefully you got the correct
answer which is a some people believe
that alcohol which includes animal parts
can cure diseases that was pretty
straightforward before we move on if
you're watching this on YouTube and
you're not yet a subscriber and you want
to see all of our crazy videos that
we're gonna do from home over the next
few weeks do click that subscribe button
ok let's continue on here all right
let's do a question two here so question
two says it was reported that an alcohol
producer sold bottles of liquor that
included pieces of rare animals because
what he what or why did he do this ok
I'll give you 20 seconds to go through
this and pause the video if you need
more time try to find the right answer
you
okay so why did he sell these out these
animal infused alcoholic alcoholic
drinks let's take a closer look here
okay so this sentence is Chinese media
report that a liquor manufacturer in
Guangdong province hoped to capitalize
on the custom by selling bottles of
alcohol stuffed with parts of rare
species such as the common water lizard
crow pheasant and tokay gecko so if we
look more closely here what we really
want to focus on is this part here he
hoped to capitalize on the custom by
selling so which of those answer options
connects to best with that which of
there is answer Oppo which one of those
answer options says the same thing but
uses different words slightly different
words synonyms or paraphrases and the
answer of course is he wanted to profit
from the exercise so specifically we're
looking at the word capitalize or sell
and that verb their profit so that is
the correct answer
okie dokie how you going so far
hopefully you're getting these answers
correct let's push on we've got a few
more to do and then I'll show you
something at the end okay let's now do
question number three you have 20
seconds
you
okay you probably need more time than 20
seconds I'm being very harsh here so do
pause the video if you require more time
try to answer the question yourself
before I show you the answer alright
let's take a look here so number three
says alcohol that includes snake and
tiger bones what is illegal in China is
very expensive is medically unproven or
is a cruel practice now it may be a
cruel practice but what we're doing is
taking information from the text only
we're not using our own opinions here or
we're not using any of our own
background information we're just using
what is found in the text in front of us
so if we take a closer look we can see
this section saying snake wine made by
drowning a live snake in alcohol can
also be found in Southeast Asia as can
wine steeped with the bones of tigers
neither of these has proven medicinal
value okay so there's nothing written
there about it being illegal in China
there's nothing written there about the
cost of it or its cruelty and if we look
closely we're specifically looking at
this part of this paragraph here neither
of these has proven medicinal value so
hopefully you've got the answer there
which is three see that particular type
of alcohol is medically unproven all
right rock and roll let's do question
number four
you
again please pause the video if you need
more time please try to find the answer
yourself
it doesn't help just listening to me
tell you the answer alright number four
the authorities who arrested the
manufacturer seized what they seized
fifty thousand one or seven thousand six
hundred ninety US dollars two dozen
bottles of the liquor various protected
animals a lizard Crow and gecko well if
we look here specifically it says last
January police busted a manufacturer and
confiscated there's the synonym they're
confiscated seized you can see the
relationship between the meaning of
these two words twenty four bottles of
animal distilled alcohol so more
specifically they confiscated twenty
four bottles
what's another way of saying 24 well
this is a little bit tricky and
hopefully I also won't do this to you
but sometimes they do things like this
24 is the same as to dozens now two
dozen rather if you look quickly it says
two dozen bottles of the liquor okay now
this is referring back to the specific
liquor mentioned this animal infused
liquor if it just said two dozen bottles
of liquor well it would potentially be
incorrect
the use of this definite article tells
us it's referring back to the specific
alcohol we've been talking about okay
let's do the final question here all
right you get twenty seconds but please
again pause the video if you require
more time
you
okay if we look closely we can see this
part of the paragraph now even more
specifically we're looking at this
phrase here never look up nearly 11
years in prison so what is the
equivalent of nearly 11 years in prison
is it 11 years Wow
not really because nearly 11 years is
different from 11 years just under a
decade well that would be below 10 years
just over a decade uh-huh that looks
pretty good or 10 years okay hopefully
you got the right answer there which is
just over a decade now admittedly the
reading task that we just did then is a
little bit different from the actual
IELTS test as you know in IELTS the
reading passages are quite long
we just kept that one pretty short for
you but that gives you an idea of what
the practice is like on e to language
comm if you do want to sign up and if
you do check this out you can sign up
for free by going to e to language comm
and if you want to help out your general
English skills if you want to improve
your grammar or your pronunciation or
your general English from beginner to
advanced you can check out Ito school
comm that is a hundred percent free so
do check out those two websites get off
YouTube you've got some time to prepare
for your IELTS test now is the time to
do it
cool that's that thanks very much for
watching I hope you enjoyed the video
straight from my mum's lounge room
straight to you wherever you are in the
world again I really hope you are well
and safe and I hope you're using your
time wisely and I really do hope that
this whole corona kovita thing ends as
quickly as possible and of course it
will only end if we do practice what the
government tells us about social
distancing and all of that sort of stuff
I actually believe so please keep doing
that all right thanks very much for
watching my name is Jay I'll see you
soon
[Music]